#Danielle's Comments on Thought Pieces
##January 27, 2015 


Adam:
I really enjoy how it engages cultural aspects that are often thought of as passive rather than something to use for critique: games and nature. Your prototype seems to aim at rendering both active rather than passive. Looking at the active/passive nature of Nature can lend to both perspectives of nature in game studies and in Chaucer. Ooooh cross-disciplinary. Working from a specific Chaucer text (perhaps making it central to your game design) might tie the two together in a more tangible way. Are you acting as a person or are you acting as nature on a person? It seems doable but you might want to consider taking open source code from a prexisting game in order to cut down on the learning curve of actually coding a game. Games with text or textual dropdown choices for actions would allow you to integrate a dialogue between the game and the Chaucer texts. This might help the game and your essay work more symbiotically than parallel. You coud also argue with prexisting games that already portray the environment working on the agent. Some technical challenges might be learning how to create the game and eventually integrating your findings into a succinct essay. You may have to widen a focus on either the Chaucer aspect or the game studies aspect (while maintaining your game creation idea, of course). You could look at Iain Bogost's "How to do Things with Videogames" because he looks at games as critique rather than passive representations and also Anna Antropy's book which outlines a few options for building indie games. One thing you may want to think about is whether you want to your viewers to get a feeling of achievement from the game. One of the games I was thinking of is Limbo because it portrays both the kid and the surrounding nature as sillhouettes, putting them on the same level. 

Kat:
I really like the way you look at the dual narrative quality of King's piece and the different and often contrasting ways the text can be read depending on the context and your personal background. I think your argument, with its dependence on irony and the different readings that can take place, could benefit from deformation. You could use an interactive timeline which removes events from the linear context in history and you can rearrange them on a timeline. I think it might also work to talk about erasure. Erasure is very much tied to the Second World War and the Holocaust and the erasure of an entire society. The erasure of many first nations cultures in Canada seems very relevant. By erasing sections of the text or creating an interactive way for the reader to actively erase the text might illuminate this theme. The game with the triangles and squares on the course outline seems relevant here as well. Is there a way to visually show the erasure or dual narrative that takes place in the text? 

Ashley:
I like the use of one specific poem to explore a much larger question (whether one can be a libertine and religious). I also think this balance between religion and lifestyle is an issue that persists as well. I think your project could also benefit from deformation. You could replace specific words with other words in order to defamiliarize the poem in order to pinpoint exactly what is religious about the poem. You could remove or change attribution of the poem as well. For example, only revealing the author after the poem has been read or pretending the author is actually Emily Dickinson to question whether the poem could be viewed as religious by association to a different author. Instead of focusing on showing how one might be a libertine and religious at the same time using computational methods, this could simply be a product of your deformation of the text. Furthermore, you could use scalar or CommentPress in order to collaboratively explore the various religious aspects within the text. You could even allow others to deform the text in ways you may not have thought of. 